# Homework2 - Game Introduction and Network Planning

My idea for the game project is a 2D competitive multiplayer, using Unity’s Netcode for Game Objects, since that is the model that was recommended by the class, and I’m too unfamiliar with game engines to make a more informed decision. I’d like the game to be able to be played both local and online, though local will be the priority. Akin to many top-down fishing games, the two players’ characters are movement locked to a fishing boat at the top of the screen, with the bottom 2/3rds of the screen an ocean filled with fish <i>(see Figure 1)</i> .  The players will have their own personal scores, encouraging friendly competitive play, and race each other against a time limit, signifying the end of the game and would reset the scores of the two players. The two players will be able to cast their own lines, where they will then be able to control their lure to catch the fish below them. A “casting” minigame will activate before the cast itself, and the better the player performs the deeper the line will sink down, enabling access to better fish options. 

When the lure has sunk down according the to “casting” minigame, part two of the game will commence; the lure being automatically reeled in by the player character’s model. Player 1’s controls will be keyboard bindings, while Player 2 will be controlled with a mouse. With Player 1, the lure will be directionally controlled left and right with the keybindings A and D, and it can be momentarily dropped a percentage of pixels by tapping S, the speed at which the lure is being reeled in can be increased by a small percentage by holding W. Player 2 will control the lure by sliding the mouse left and right, can reel in faster by holding the left mouse button, and drop the lure slightly by pressing the right mouse button <i>(See Figure 2)</i>. The player wants to run into as many fish as they can while the lure is being reeled in, while also avoiding obstacles that will knock fish off the lure. The more fish the player catches the slower the lure will react to the player’s actions, making it harder for the player to avoid getting hit by obstacles. The collision box will be connected to the lure sprite above the hook, so the player will be able to keep track of the lure’s location and its distance from other objects. While the two lures won’t be able to collide against each other, its entirely possible for one player to steal the fish another player was going for. Bigger fish will offer bigger score values, in exchange for adding extra weight onto the lure.  

I plan on using primarily ChatGPT for my generative AI, though as I have a Windows computer I may fall back onto Copilot if my preferred AI isn’t responding accordingly. I plan on using ChatGPT for coding aid, such as when I want to implement certain aspects of game interaction that I’m unsure how to do myself, or as a code debugger if I run into unintended game interactions. As I’m an online student, I’m preparing to work on most projects by myself, so I will be using ChatGPT as my first line of help in coding and debugging before turning to the class discord for problems that neither I or the AI suggestions can solve on our own. 
